---
title: "The limits of predictability"
date: 2025-06-12
episode_number: "001"
audio_url: "https://weathering.dynamical.org/001.mp3"
spotify_url: "https://open.spotify.com/episode/70UAFiJRRF5vwAWxj2VEIl"
apple_url: "https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/weathering/id1820085883?i=1000712517766"
---

How far into the future can we actually predict the weather? Typically, this question is rhetorical, a slight (or smite⚡) against meteorologists everywhere after someone’s wedding gets rained out. But in this inaugural episode of _Weathering_, we’re asking in earnest—what is the horizon for accurate weather forecasts?

Here, we look at a paper from the University of Washington (link below) that suggests the limit might be more than double the long-held belief of fourteen days. Thus, too, challenging the foundational theory of chaos—“the butterfly effect”—that has informed how we think and forecast weather since it was coined in the 1970s. We examine the methods that the researchers use and engage in some armchair philosophy: What does chaos mean if our foundational example of chaos—weather—is actually predictable? Is there a difference between chaos and predictability? And how might knowing next month’s weather change our relationship to the environment and weather itself?

We can’t promise you answers, we didn’t even articulate the questions that well, but we can promise to add to your never-ending TBR.

## Featured paper

**Testing the Limit of Atmospheric Predictability With a Machine Learning Weather Model**  
<https://arxiv.org/pdf/2504.20238>

## Further reading

- **Science and Method** by Henri Poincaré  
  _Chaos theory before it was chaos theory._

- **Isaac's Storm** by Erik Larson  
  _The 1900 Galveston hurricane through the eyes of meteorologist Isaac Cline, revealing the human and scientific failures that led to the deadliest natural disaster in U.S. history._

- **Immeasurable Weather: Settler Colonialism and the American Weather Enterprise** by Sara J. Grossman  
  _Weather science in the U.S. is entangled with settler colonialism (omg no way)._

- **Strange as This Weather Has Been** by Ann Pancake  
  _A novel set during the coal boom in southern Appalachia, centered on mountaintop removal mining and catastrophic flooding. You will weep._

- **“A Sound of Thunder”** by Ray Bradbury  
  _A short story in which stepping on a butterfly in the past alters the future. Published BEFORE the term was coined, and that’s Bradbury for ya._
