---
title: "About GEFS-fing Time & Introducing Our Steering Committee"
date: 2025-03-12
---

Weatherlings, the time has come for our first non-demo release. Weighing in at **115TB** compressed and **815TB** (!) uncompressed, GEFS ain’t messing around.

Last year, we launched [dynamical.org](https://dynamical.org) into the world and watched as hundreds of weather data nerds emerged (sublimated?) from the woodwork. Our community has been growing steadily, united by a shared mission to make weather data _Spark Joy_.

# 🌎 Introducing NOAA's Global Ensemble Forecast System (GEFS) 35-Day Forecasts!

I am thrilled to announce the latest addition to Dynamical’s catalog: **NOAA's Global Ensemble Forecast System (GEFS) 35-day forecasts!**

## 📦 What's in the box?

**The Specs:**

| Parameter               | Details                                                               |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Spatial Domain**      | Global                                                                |
| **Spatial Resolution**  | 0-240 hours: 0.25 degrees (~20km), 243-840 hours: 0.5 degrees (~40km) |
| **Time Domain**         | Forecasts initialized **2020-10-01 00:00:00 UTC** to Present          |
| **Time Resolution**     | Forecasts initialized every **24 hours**                              |
| **Forecast Domain**     | Forecast lead time **0-840 hours (0-35 days) ahead**                  |
| **Forecast Resolution** | Forecast step **0-240 hours: 3-hourly**, 243-840 hours: 6-hourly      |

Best of all, it's **operationally updated with minimal latency** and available in the **Zarr v3** format that plants crave:

```python
import xarray as xr

ds = xr.open_dataset("https://data.dynamical.org/noaa/gefs/forecast-35-day/latest.zarr?email=optional@email.com")
```

We are already using this new dataset for R&D at Upstream Tech, and we **can’t wait to hear how you use it!** We've included [documentation and example notebooks](https://dynamical.org/catalog) in the catalog entry to get you started. If you hit snags or have feedback, drop us a line at [feedback@dynamical.org](mailto:feedback@dynamical.org).

We’ll be holding our first dynamical.org office hours Thursday Mar 20, 2025 at 10-11am PDT / 1-2pm EDT / 5-6pm UTC. Join [this Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/wtc-jhff-bxn) to ask questions or give feedback.

---

# Introducing Our Steering Committee!

We're excited to announce the formation of the **dynamical.org Steering Committee!** This dream team will:

- Advise on **project priorities** (Which datasets to zarr-ify next?)
- Bridge the gap between **our open-source code and real-world applications**
- Shape the future of how we **access and analyze weather and climate data**

**Current Members:**

- **Alden Keefe Sampson** – dynamical.org & Upstream Tech
- **Jack Kelly** – Open Climate Fix
- **Jake Zwart** – United States Geological Survey
- **Joe Hamman** – Earthmover
- **Stephan Hoyer** – Xarray

By bringing together this collective expertise, we're ensuring that **Dynamical.org remains relevant, impactful, and true to its mission.**

---

[Shine on](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2NdhcYnC-V8) (lol),

MM
